iconProjects.md, before:

---
layout: category
title: "icon projects"
category: iconProjects
---

# Introduction

For as long as I can remember, I've always loved creating characters. I love giving them names, personalities, trying as much as possible to turn them into real people. In 2011, I created a DeviantART account and began posting my characters, but looking back on it now, I think this love for character creation started long before then. I was definitely a kid with lots of imaginary friends, and I've found old drawings dating to before 2011 of characters I'd dreamed up. But, for the sake of putting a date on it, I say my journey as a character creator began in 2011.

By 2013, I'd already created dozens of characters, and it was beginning to get difficult to keep track of them all. It was around that time that I noticed I had certain characters that carried more significance than others, for whatever reason. Some were just older characters, some were ones that I latched onto and dove deeply into character development. So in 2013, as part of a mini project, I decided to pick 16 of my "top" characters and draw them in a compilation project--which I called "Icons"--to represent their importance to me. And what made a character important to me? Well, in the words of my 2013 self: "They all protect me. They keep me company when I'm lonely. Banish my fears when I'm scared... Comfort me when I'm heartbroken or upset. Reassure me when I lose hope. Talk to me when I'm lost and confused. These are the things special [original characters] should always do."

Why I chose 16, I'm still unclear on that myself, but I suspect it had something to do with having an even 4x4 matrix to draw the characters! Whatever the reason, these 16 girls mean the world to me. I don't think I knew it back then, but these 16 original Icons would grow beyond just a one-time project of displaying 16 of my most significant characters together, but would evolve to yearly projects of drawing them in various costumes.

The original 16 are all fan characters--characters that I created and inserted in fan works to a pre-existing universethat I created between 2011 and 2012. I used to get quite embarrassed to admit that I created characters, and even more embarrassed to admit that I inserted these characters into the fictional worlds of DC Comics, Harry Potter, etc... To be honest, I'm still a little embarrassed, but I think that feeling is subsiding gradually both as I get older and the importance of the universes that these characters were created for is starting to fade. Nowadays, when I think about them, I don't often think of them in the context of their universes anymore. The only time it comes up is when designing their costumes, and even then, their personalities and characteristics outweigh the unvierse they come from. For each character's introduction, I won't go too deeply into details that pertain to their franchises, maybe a little bit out of embarrassment, but also as to not step on any toes of copyrighted IPs. 


## Design Considerations

When it comes to designing a costume, there are a few things that I take into consideration. 

1. The character's original colour scheme and costume.
2. The character's personality and interests. 
3. The character's cultural background. 

All of these elements play a role in how I design each character's costume, but at a different extent for each Icon. 

All of the Icon project editions fall into one of two categories: following a piece of clothing--like a dress or kimono--and following a theme--like Bombshells or Pokemon.

Whilst I don't design in the order that the Icons are listed, Spell typically still is the first one I do because she is the prototype. Generally, when I'm trying to pick a theme, I come up with designs for each theme for Spell first and decide from there. Since she is the first one I design, her costumes tend to take a little longer to perfect, because how I design Spell will also, in some ways, set up a precedence for what criteria I think about when designing the others.  
 

## The Icons
[Introductions]({{ site.baseurl }}{% post_url 2020-05-18-Icons %})

## Projects Over Time

This redraw, though, did rebrand the Icon projects in certain ways, and changed my methodology. Before, I used to always do them in sets of two, because I did two characters on one sheet of paper. I also always did them in order (Spell, Khiri, Dvora, Kit, Kaina, Meghan, etc...). What changed was I started using a different sketchbook, a larger one. Although it seems kind of silly to say that, I started being able to put four on a page and then just cut these large sheets of paper into 4 11.45x15.25 squares. So on one sheet of paper, I felt less pressured to make them in pairs since each girl now occupies their own sheet. I also stopped using a scanner, but instead started taking photographs, bringing them into photoshop and composing the projects that way. I think what motivated me, as well, to draw characters out of order in the redraw is that all of the costumes were fully designed. In earlier costume theme-based Icon Projects, I would often just design the first few costumes, and then design as a went. So, for example, I might be drawing Spell's piece, but then still working on a design for Kohli, which restricted who I could draw. I found that I liked the workflow a lot more when they were all already designed, so, though that wasn't the process for the Bombshells costumes, this "design all 16 costumes before drawing" is my current workflow with these projects. For the Bombshells redraw, I can't entirely remember the order I drew them in, of course, but I know for a fact that after I drew Spell, I started doing them out of order. In a way, this was extremely beneficial, because in earliy projects, I had a major problem of quality going down as time went on, and it was clear that later girls, like Kaiya, Blaire, Miradi, etc... were drawn a little more sloppily, mostly out of fatigue and starting to get a little bored with a project. These earlier editions, I often tried to complete them (from the very first sketch to the final colour) in just a couple of days, which obviously was not beneficial. The boredom solved itself as I got older and began to treat these projects more seriously. Drawing characters out of order solved the problem of quality clearly going downhill as we got to the later girls. This was also solved, in part, by learning pacing and general workflow. Initially, I would complete an entire Icon before moving onto the next. I would sketch, outline and colour the entirety of one girl at a time. With the redraw of Bombshells, this is when I changed to sketching all 16, then outlining 2 or 3 at a time, and then colouring one at a time. This ceratinly fixed the quality problem, because after sketching a girl, there's now always at least a day or two of time before I look at the sketch again. When doing that, I'm able to both fix mistakes made in the sketch because they appear more obvious and also giving time to reinvigorate myself. 

Another huge shift throughout the last few years of doing Icon Projects is how the pieces are assembled. Since each girl was drawn on a separate piece of paper, I was able to be more nitpicky about placement. The redraw also happened after I started getting better at photoshop. I started being able to add cute little backgrounds for each girl, and placing their names in more dynamic, interesting places and angles (rather than just handwriting them above their heads).

Commit message:

Regorganisation, adding to project front page text, organising files

iconProjects.md, after:

---
layout: category
title: "icon projects"
category: iconProjects
---

# Introduction

For as long as I can remember, I've always loved creating characters. I love giving them names, personalities, trying as much as possible to turn them into real people. In 2011, I created a DeviantART account and began posting my characters, but looking back on it now, I think this love for character creation started long before then. I was definitely a kid with lots of imaginary friends, and I've found old drawings dating to before 2011 of characters I'd dreamed up. But, for the sake of putting a date on it, I say my journey as a character creator began in 2011.

By 2013, I'd already created dozens of characters, and it was beginning to get difficult to keep track of them all. It was around that time that I noticed I had certain characters that carried more significance than others, for whatever reason. Some were just older characters, some were ones that I latched onto and dove deeply into character development. So in 2013, as part of a mini project, I decided to pick 16 of my "top" characters and draw them in a compilation project--which I called "Icons"--to represent their importance to me. And what made a character important to me? Well, in the words of my 2013 self: "They all protect me. They keep me company when I'm lonely. Banish my fears when I'm scared... Comfort me when I'm heartbroken or upset. Reassure me when I lose hope. Talk to me when I'm lost and confused. These are the things special [original characters] should always do."

Why I chose 16, I'm still unclear on that myself, but I suspect it had something to do with having an even 4x4 matrix to draw the characters! Whatever the reason, these 16 girls mean the world to me. I don't think I knew it back then, but these 16 original Icons would grow beyond just a one-time project of displaying 16 of my most significant characters together, but would evolve to yearly projects of drawing them in various costumes.

The original 16 are all fan characters--characters that I created and inserted in fan works to a pre-existing universethat I created between 2011 and 2012. I used to get quite embarrassed to admit that I created characters, and even more embarrassed to admit that I inserted these characters into the fictional worlds of DC Comics, Harry Potter, etc... To be honest, I'm still a little embarrassed, but I think that feeling is subsiding gradually both as I get older and the importance of the universes that these characters were created for is starting to fade. Nowadays, when I think about them, I don't often think of them in the context of their universes anymore. The only time it comes up is when designing their costumes, and even then, their personalities and characteristics outweigh the unvierse they come from. For each character's introduction, I won't go too deeply into details that pertain to their franchises, maybe a little bit out of embarrassment, but also as to not step on any toes of copyrighted IPs. 


## Design Considerations

When it comes to designing a costume, there are a few things that I take into consideration. 

1. The character's original colour scheme and costume.
2. The character's personality and interests. 
3. The character's cultural background. 

All of these elements play a role in how I design each character's costume, but at a different extent for each Icon. 

All of the Icon project editions fall into one of two categories: following a piece of clothing--like a dress or kimono--and following a theme--like Bombshells or Pokemon.

Whilst I don't design in the order that the Icons are listed, Spell typically still is the first one I do because she is the prototype. Generally, when I'm trying to pick a theme, I come up with designs for each theme for Spell first and decide from there. Since she is the first one I design, her costumes tend to take a little longer to perfect, because how I design Spell will also, in some ways, set up a precedence for what criteria I think about when designing the others.  
 

## The Icons
[Introductions]({{ site.baseurl }}{% post_url 2020-05-18-Icons %})

## Projects Over Time

This redraw, though, did rebrand the Icon projects in certain ways, and changed my methodology. Before, I used to always do them in sets of two, because I did two characters on one sheet of paper. I also always did them in order (Spell, Khiri, Dvora, Kit, Kaina, Meghan, etc...). What changed was I started using a different sketchbook, a larger one. Although it seems kind of silly to say that, I started being able to put four on a page and then just cut these large sheets of paper into 4 11.45x15.25 squares. So on one sheet of paper, I felt less pressured to make them in pairs since each girl now occupies their own sheet. I also stopped using a scanner, but instead started taking photographs, bringing them into photoshop and composing the projects that way. I think what motivated me, as well, to draw characters out of order in the redraw is that all of the costumes were fully designed. In earlier costume theme-based Icon Projects, I would often just design the first few costumes, and then design as a went. So, for example, I might be drawing Spell's piece, but then still working on a design for Kohli, which restricted who I could draw. I found that I liked the workflow a lot more when they were all already designed, so, though that wasn't the process for the Bombshells costumes, this "design all 16 costumes before drawing" is my current workflow with these projects. For the Bombshells redraw, I can't entirely remember the order I drew them in, of course, but I know for a fact that after I drew Spell, I started doing them out of order. In a way, this was extremely beneficial, because in earliy projects, I had a major problem of quality going down as time went on, and it was clear that later girls, like Kaiya, Blaire, Miradi, etc... were drawn a little more sloppily, mostly out of fatigue and starting to get a little bored with a project. These earlier editions, I often tried to complete them (from the very first sketch to the final colour) in just a couple of days, which obviously was not beneficial. The boredom solved itself as I got older and began to treat these projects more seriously. Drawing characters out of order solved the problem of quality clearly going downhill as we got to the later girls. This was also solved, in part, by learning pacing and general workflow. Initially, I would complete an entire Icon before moving onto the next. I would sketch, outline and colour the entirety of one girl at a time. With the redraw of Bombshells, this is when I changed to sketching all 16, then outlining 2 or 3 at a time, and then colouring one at a time. This ceratinly fixed the quality problem, because after sketching a girl, there's now always at least a day or two of time before I look at the sketch again. When doing that, I'm able to both fix mistakes made in the sketch because they appear more obvious and also giving time to reinvigorate myself. 

Another huge shift throughout the last few years of doing Icon Projects is how the pieces are assembled. Since each girl was drawn on a separate piece of paper, I was able to be more nitpicky about placement. The redraw also happened after I started getting better at photoshop. I started being able to add cute little backgrounds for each girl, and placing their names in more dynamic, interesting places and angles (rather than just handwriting them above their heads). This also enabled me to do a "light mode" and "dark mode" for each project! It occurred to me that this may be cool when I was messing around with the saturation levels on the Bombshells edition, trying to make it look vintage and convey the 1940s WWII mood more. One of the best choices I've ever made!
