---
layout: post
title: Bombshells (2018, 2017)
category: iconProjects
---
_Imaginings of my characters in the longtime beloved series Pokemon!_ 



Something that became apparent in my early research for the Pokémon edition was that, in the games, trainers, gym leaders and other groups of people had distinct characteristics that visually gave away what they were. The trainers tend to wear hats and more plain clothes whilst gym leaders/other non-trainer figures wore things that looked more like costumes than clothes, depending on their role. Gym leaders, in particular, followed this trend. Because of this, the first thing I did, before doing any designs, was try and figure out who would be a trainer, gym leader or some other role. Determining the trainers were easier. All Icons 20 or younger were automatically made trainers. All Icons 20 and older were made Gym Leaders or Elite.

Their assignments ultimately came down to:

Spell - Elite Leader
Khiri - League Organiser
Dvora - Gym Leader
Kit - Trainer
Kaina - Trainer
Meghan - Elite
Minola - Gym Leader
Kohli - Elite
Kati - Elite
Trinity - Trainer
Arietta - Trainer
Kaiya - Trainer
Kari - Trainer
Zara - Gym Leader 
Blaire - Trainer
Miradi - Elite

Determining the Elite members was harder. Of course, I made Spell the Elite Leader. So then it was taken from the rest of the adult characters who would be counted as Elite as well. I knew off the bat that Kati and Kohli should be Elites, because their personalities also seem to lend themselves to pokemon battles more in general, being more belligerant overarchingly. After that, I picked Miradi, since she is more logical but also very capable of fighting (in her personality). Meghan was the one that was different. I almost made Zara an Elite, because of how her natural personality is, but then I do remember, Elites also always have that one person who doesn't seem like they should be an Elite at first judgement, but are strong and skilled when put to the test. That really encapsulates Meghan's personality, I think, as she is someone who is generall more shy and timid, but highly capable and often underestimated. 