---
layout: post
title: Game Design from a Non-Gamer’s Point of View
category: writings
tags: [reflection]
---

How I went from being able to count all the games I’d ever played in my entire 19 years of life on two hands to a Game Design major.


When we’re little, we’re constantly asked, “What do you want to be when you grow up?” I used to think it was only something that adults asked children, but I’ve come to realise that it doesn’t stop once we reach adulthood, it simply changes its face; that “when you grow up” becomes “now that you are grown up”. People start asking us, “why are you studying mathematics?”, “why are you studying film?”, “why are you studying computer science?”. Generally, if someone asks me something I don’t want to answer, I’ll dodge it. But when someone asks me why I’m in Game Design, I don’t dodge. I just don’t have an answer. 

Before addressing the “why”, it’s important to answer the “how”.

Right before freshman year started, my parents and I made a deal: I’d get explore whatever I wanted in my first year at NYU and if I hadn’t decided on a major by the beginning of my second year, I’d start pursuing biology, my “backup major”; I enjoyed it in high school--I was even pretty good at it--so it felt like a safe bet. In my first year, while I experimented with and developed interest in writing, east asian studies and cinema studies,
they were all fields that would cause my parents to have an aneurysm if I chose to study. So when sophomore year started in fall 2017, I prepared to start my college career as a biology student; I registered for Principles of Biology, rented textbooks, bought the iClicker. But something went wrong. About 30 minutes into the first class, I felt my chest start to tighten. My breath got short. My thoughts became foggy. I was having a panic attack. 

I don’t think I’ve ever fled a room faster than I did that day after the lecture ended. 

I dropped the course without looking back. But that left me with a new problem on my hands: I was only enrolled in three classes and had no idea what a fourth might even be. Apart from biology, I was enrolled in Intermediate Japanese I, Sociolinguistics, and, most peculiarly of all, Introduction to Computer Programming. My mom had always hoped that I’d go in to computer science and for years, I parried her requests to “just give it a shot”. During registration, I figured that I’d tried so many different concentrations and things weren’t going well, so maybe it was time to stop resisting. To this day, Introduction to Computer Programming has been the most life-changing class I’ve ever taken. My professor was not only passionate about computer science, but he also showed me that it reaches beyond just the stuffy programming that my mom does at IBM. There’s graphics, there’s interactivity and, most prominently, there’s video games. Inspired, I registered for Introduction to Programming for Games in the Game Design department. I ended up falling in love with it. 

Around the same time, I told my roommate that I was feeling suffocated in the College of Arts and Science. It was no secret that I wished I could’ve just pursued film like I’d wanted to after I graduated high school, even if my parents didn’t approve of it, and being barred from studying what I wanted was starting to take a toll on my mental health. She responded, “Why not try Game Design then? You love art and seem to have an interest in programming. Since there’s some component of technology, I don’t think your parents would be unsupportive.” And with that, I began a six-week journey to prepare my portfolio and transfer application from the College of Arts and Science to the Tisch School of the Arts.

Now, even though I’m in the Game Design program, I still have almost no experience playing games--before I transferred to this program, I could count every game I’d ever played on two hands. A few months ago, I got my first ever video game console: the Nintendo Switch. With it, I received Super Mario Odyssey. I was excited to finally be able to play games and feel like a “real” Game Design student. However, the Switch has also caused me to examine my background and place in the program from a critical perspective; one time, I was playing with a friend--who grew up playing video games and is well-versed in all past and present Mario games--and she was teaching me how to get bonus coins. “Just do a ground pound”. I didn’t even know what “ground pound” meant, so I asked her. She replied, “it’s the same as every other Mario game.” In that moment, it struck me how drastically different the learning curve was for me because I didn’t grow up playing Super Mario or digital games in general. This difference in background has caused me to feel disjointed from the Game Design program.  

I recently spoke to one of my professors about my anxieties regarding whether or not I belong in Game Design--a very specialised, niche major. He told me a story: there’s a British TV show in which children perform their magic tricks for two middle-class, white, male professional magicians. If the professionals can’t figure out how the children did their tricks, the kids get to perform on TV. The pros debunked all of the magic tricks performed by white boys but could only figure out about 2 out of 5 that were performed by girls, people of colour, lower-class children, etc… My professor said that maybe I’m not like all the other kids at the Game Center, and have to work a little bit harder to completely understand all of the references, but I do also bring in a new perspective, and that gives me an advantage: I’m not someone who is set in my ways and has strict, predictable opinions on gaming. 

Before hearing this, I’d felt inferior to most of my classmates. I was embarrassed that I had to take to the Internet to understand their conversations about difficult bosses in Dark Souls and Mercy being nerfed in Overwatch. But my professor’s story helped me realise that there’s strength in my weaknesses. My lack of knowledge helps me to see the world of gaming through a set of wide, unknowing eyes. In the Games 101 class, part of our homework was to play the key games (which included Halo, FIFA, Myst and many more); I played every single one that was discussed with curiosity and vigour, not just because it was a chore. In weeks which one of the assigned games was something widely known and beloved by all gamers, most of my classmates forgot the others and played the popular one. Not having experience with most of the games, I gave every one a chance without any bias or preconceptions. Our weaknesses don’t put us below others, it just means that we can all grow in different aspects. As an interdisciplinary field that draws strength from combining art, graphic design, computer science, media studies and creative writing, Game Design therefore also draws strength from combining people of all different backgrounds and expertises. There’s so much we can learn from each other, not just our teachers. 

While my doubts about whether I belong in this program are still intimidating, they’re also what make it all the more exciting, and I don’t regret my choice to transfer one bit. My knowledge of video games has already grown immensely in the last year; every day I find something new to be curious about, and that is how I know, this is where I belong. 
