---
layout: post
title: Stranger in a Familiar Land
categories: [writings]
tags: [reflection]
---
How my ethnic identity has impacted my confidence and emotions for the last decade.


新年快樂！ This past week we said goodbye to the year of the dog and welcomed the year of the pig! Chinese New Year, along with the Mid-Autumn Festival--中秋節--is one of my favourite holidays. After two years away, I was lucky enough to spend the New Year at home with my family. Ten years ago, I probably would have been quite indifferent about not being able to celebrate at home. It’s not that I wouldn’t have cared, it just probably wouldn’t have occurred to me. As a first generation American, growing up it was sometimes hard to acknowledge Taiwanese holidays--while my family celebrated them, they weren’t publicised like Thanksgiving, and I didn’t get days off from school (the real deal sealer for children). Now, my identity as a child of Taiwanese descent is something I hold on tightly to, and I do my best to follow cultural practices no matter where I am. But it wasn’t always this way. Like a lot of people who are first generation of any nationality or have a mixed racial background, pride in my ethnic identity wasn’t a privilege. It was something fought for.  

People oftentimes wish that they could be a kid again and go back to a simpler time. Maybe some things are simpler when you’re a kid, but don’t take adolescence as synonymous with easy; it’s the age of awareness. For me, I became aware that being Asian made me different. As a young child, I don’t recall noticing my skin colour; then again, these things usually don’t matter much to children and people usually can’t remember a lot from before they were 10 anyways. In the years leading up to middle school, I not only became aware that I was different from the white kids, but I wanted to be one of them. I can’t pinpoint when it started to happen, but these things tend to be gradual and creep into the edges of conscious thought slowly. I have a collection of uncomfortable experiences from when I was between 10 and 12 years old that fed into my rude awakening--the time that a kid in my English class chased me around screaming, “it’s hug an Asian day! Let me hug you!” The time that my history teacher couldn’t pronounce my last name correctly and asked me to repeat it until he got it right. None of this was done with any bad intention. I don’t have a grudge against the kid who tried to hug me just because I was Asian. He’s actually a nice person. Sure we were old enough to be aware of our actions, but kids do stupid things, and it would be unreasonable for me to hold him responsible for something he did when we were 11. My history teacher kept asking me to pronounce my last name because he wanted to get it right. To him it was consideration. How could he have known that I was embarrassed that I kept having to say it? 

I also started to learn about stereotypes. I hated that because my parents were from Asia, I had to be good at mathematics. I hated it so much that there was a period in which I purposely didn’t study and tried to fail tests because I wanted to show that not all Asians are good at maths. Looking back on it now, it was an utterly ridiculous thing to do, but I can’t blame my past self for it either. 

It ain’t easy being a kid. 

When I was 14 years old, I went back to Taiwan for the first time in 5 years--I got to see family that I hadn’t seen since I was 9 years old, enjoyed walking the streets of Taipei and gained confidence from being surrounded by people that looked like me. You would think that being able to connect with my Taiwanese heritage would be the hardest part, but it somehow found a way to get even worse. It went from a matter of appearance and confidence in my Asian-ness in a white country to a matter of politics and confidence in my Taiwanese identity in a world assuming that I was Chinese. Having to define my identity as Taiwanese and not Chinese that was even harder than getting over wishing I was white. When I wished I was white, it was simply because I didn’t want the attention that my skin colour seemed to bring to me sometimes. People weren’t trying to tell me that I’m too Asian to be American or too American to be Asian. But I always had to push back against people saying, “oh, well, Taiwan’s part of China, so you’re Chinese.”

Unlike the “Great White Crisis”, I wasn’t lost about my identity, I was angry. It was a slap in the face. After finally finding pride in being Asian, the world started telling me “you’re not this kind of Asian, you’re that kind.” I was constantly screaming at the top of my lungs that I was Taiwanese, not Chinese. It’s true that there are many Taiwanese people that still identify as Chinese, whether it be because of political conflict over the island’s independence or because their parents immigrated from China to Taiwan and they are first generation Taiwanese. But my family has been on the island for over twelve generations and strongly believes in an independent Taiwan. Any trace of Chinese identity we had has gone out the window. And that doesn’t sit well with a lot of people--especially the Chinese--and it’s led a lot of Taiwanese families to be uncomfortable with their nationality. 

At NYU, there’s a Taiwanese student club. I went for a while because I wanted so badly to be a part of the organisation, to connect with my fellow Taiwanese students, but eventually had to stop because it brought me more anxiety than happiness. I can’t speak for the actual intentions of the students in it, but it felt like an elitist club to me; there was a selective in-group made up of international students from Taiwan and foreign-born Taiwanese students. Newcomers born and raised in Taiwan were welcomed with open arms, those with Taiwanese ancestry and raised elsewhere were welcomed if they had the right aesthetic--fashionable, modern dress; lead with a certain amount of pride--and those with no Taiwanese ancestry were given the cold shoulder. I was nervous to say this at first, but I spoke to two of my friends who grew up in Taiwan and both said that they never attend the club for the exact same reason. People in the in-group looked so confident, and I thought if I could join them, I’d be that way too. But looking back on it now, I think that it might have been overwhelming insecurity that caused the club to be so polarised in who was allowed to join and who wasn’t. It’s possible that growing up, many of these students lacked confidence in who they were--whether it be because of conflict in separating their identity from being Chinese or wishing they were white. Just like how when I went back to Taiwan when I was 14 and gained confidence by being surrounded by people that looked like me, these students needed to cling tightly to other Taiwanese people to solidify their own identity.

I’ve started to care less about what other people say or think. In my first month at NYU, I remember having a complete mental breakdown due to frustration. I had a suitemate who wasn’t Chinese but had lived in China for about 6 months. She always said that she identified as Chinese and constantly tried to “convert” me to believing I was as well. I was used to this kind of experience. But there I was in a new place meeting new people, and they were still trying to impose their ideas of identity on me. At the time, I was quite embarrassed that I broke down so quickly in front of almost complete strangers. In retrospect, I’m glad that it happened. It was the moment that I realised that there are always going to be people out there like that. Was I going to let all of them anger me? After so many years of being angry and fighting, I was tired. Did I really want to feel that tired for the rest of my life? Identity should be empowering, not enraging, not exhausting. 

I’m still bothered when people assume that I’m Chinese, but I also can’t hold them accountable for things they don’t know. It’s unfair of me to expect people to know that I am Taiwanese just by my appearance, because I certainly can’t always discern someone’s ethnicity just by looking either. Maybe it hurts a little and doesn’t feel right, but as a simple misunderstanding, it’s justified. Only when people start trying to define or discriminate against someone else’s identity that it becomes wrong. If people tell me that I’m Chinese even after hearing that I’m Taiwanese, of course it annoys me--but if they have nothing better to do than tell other people who they are, well, as my mom would say “神經病”--they’re crazy, and I don’t think I want to be around them anyways. The only person responsible for my identity is me. So while I can’t change other people’s minds about me being Chinese, they will also never change my mind about being Taiwanese. I’ll always keep on walking forward, and won’t let their words anger me anymore. 