---
layout: post
title: My First Game
category: writings
tags: [analysis]
---
_Why I’ve put well over 100 hours into playing_ The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild.


Growing up I didn’t get to play a lot of games. But that doesn’t mean I wasn’t a fan of the franchises. As someone with a high appreciation for narrative and worldbuilding, The Legend of Zelda series has always been a big source of fascination and adoration for me--though I couldn’t play the games myself, I’d read a lot about them and watched more theory videos than I’m proud to admit. After years of having to watch playthroughs on YouTube, I finally got the chance to play a Zelda game for myself last year when I bought _Breath of the Wild_. I’d played Until Dawn with a friend, I’d played a range of commonly known games like _Super Smash Bros_ to niche games like Bushido Blade, but _Breath of the Wild_ was the first game that I played by myself and was invested to the point that I was staying up to the wee hour of 3AM on multiple occasions.  

Why was I risking my own health staying up so late playing Zelda, you might ask? 

For one, the puzzles. As opposed to a traditional Zelda game--where there would be a few large dungeons--_Breath of the Wild_ introduced an interesting system of mini puzzles through the shrines. I’ve heard that some people weren’t fans of this different formula, but I found it appropriate; it struck a good balance between exploration and puzzle solving--when I was tired of exploring, I could complete a few shrines. When I was tired of shrines, I could explore. And when I was in the mood for a longer challenge, I could go take on a Divine Beast!

Cliche or cheesy as it might sound, confronting Vah Ruta--the first Divine Beast that I encountered--was truly a beautiful and memorable experience. At the beginning of the outside assault, I was terrified that I would mess up; I thought I was done for the first time I got hit by an ice block, but to my great relief, Sidon simply swam up to me and I was allowed to try again. By not punishing players for making mistakes and alleviating the pressure to be perfect, the developers made the whole experience less aggravating and overall more enjoyable. It was also exciting getting to use my favourite mechanic in the entire game: entering bullet time and shooting arrows in midair. Once inside the machine, solving puzzles was a matter of observation and studying how Vah Ruta’s trunk moved (which, I adored, because the space _was_ the puzzle, not just the setting). I appreciated that the most about almost all of the game’s puzzles, shrines, Divine Beasts and koroks included. Some of them were easier than others, but they were well balanced and never caused me enough frustration to stop playing. Everything was solvable with a little time, observation and ingenuity.  

While the puzzles were enjoyable, they weren’t the primary reason I fell head over heels in love with _Breath of the Wild_. It was the memories and diaries and how they functioned in both the larger Legend of Zelda narrative (my heart broke a little bit when Zelda heard Fi’s voice from the Master Sword--Fi’s departure in _Skyward Sword_ is one of my all time favourite scenes from any Zelda game) and _Breath of the Wild_’s individual narrative while not being intrusive or unnatural. The first memory that I unlocked happened to be the 12th one--Link and Zelda running through the woods to escape from Calamity Ganon. I instantly tore right into analysing the characters; Zelda as someone who was grappling with her destiny and inability to unlock a power that would ensure the survival of Hyrule. Link not just as her protector, but also a friend (if he were just another knight, wouldn’t he have told her to get up and keep going until they reached safety? He put them both in danger by stopping and putting away the Master Sword, but he did and heard her out). I was blown away; if one minute-long cutscene could grab my attention like that, what else did the rest of the memories hold for me?  

The memories were a truly brilliant way of turning Zelda--the trickiest main character to develop across most Zelda games because she tends to be absent for most of the gameplay--in _Breath of the Wild_ into a 3D character. She not only had strong personality development, but was also one of the most interesting Zeldas. One of the memories depicts her taking pictures of wildlife in Hyrule Field. She discusses research on the Silent Princess flower and enthusiastically asks Link to eat a frog (because, science). Another memory shows Zelda trying to get into a shrine. She’s unsuccessful, but that doesn’t deter her. When Link arrives, she gets angry that he followed her and says that it seems like she’s the only one with a “mind of [her] own.” All of it clearly establishes Zelda as a spunky and headstrong character that wants more than to surrender to the fate written for her. Of course she would do anything to protect her kingdom, but she wants her responsibilities to work in parallel with her own scholarly interests. 

Zelda’s predetermined fate even leads her to be a bit of a philosopher--she wonders that if Link had been told he could be something other than a knight, would he have gone another way? It’s clear that she’s thinking about herself too; people always tell her she’s meant to imprison the darkness using her born power, but it’s not what she wants. She merely wants her freedom to study. Speaking of the power, this is more a personal gripe related to character development, but for me, characters can oftentimes can be divided into two categories: those with a difficult past but easy-coming mastery over their powers and those with a perfect background but immense struggle to unlock their abilities. I’m a much bigger fan of the latter category and unlike Zelda from _Skyward Sword_ and _Twilight Princess_, who managed their powers well, it was interesting to see this iteration of Zelda struggle.

The diaries, on the other hand, were an interesting way to understand Link. By reading Zelda’s diary, it’s revealed why he doesn’t talk much, and it’s actually quite tragic: since he knows of his destiny with Ganon, he thinks it necessary to silently bear any burden that comes to him (and we find out from Mipha’s diary that he used to be a reckless child that spoke, but as he got older, his words got fewer and manner more serious). Both Mipha’s and Zelda’s insights would’ve been uneasy to reveal had it not been from their diaries. Having known and spent a lot of time with him, it makes sense that they know about his deeper personality. There’s always the choice to make a secondary character that happened to know Link before the calamity and is still alive, but that wouldn’t have made sense--Link was a royal knight and very dedicated to his training. It’s unlikely that he had any friends outside of the champions and other royal guard members, let alone ones he felt safe enough to open up to. One of the Zora stated that they knew Link when they were young, but if the two happened to be close friends it would have been odd and forced. 

On top of engaging puzzles and exploring character development, though I don’t want to admit it, another reason I love _Breath of the Wild_ is the quiet gratification I get from saying that I’ve played it. I remember when I was still near the beginning of the game--just after leaving the Great Plateau--I told my friend that I was “ignoring the main quest completely and determined to find all of the shrines and explore the world.” He replied, “oh my god you’re one of those”--it wasn’t said in a condescending way, just merely suggesting that we had different play styles. One of my professors chimed in and said, “hey! Unlocking the map is the best part!” and we fist bumped. It was awesome. It was the first time I felt qualified to call myself a gamer in any respect. 

I could go on for many more pages about my love for _Breath of the Wild_--the art direction, the music, the mechanics--but I think that’s enough for today. Now, if you’ll excuse me, I’m off to find 382 more Korok Seeds. 