---
layout: post
title: Mark Watney Space Pirate!
categories: [writings]
tags: [analysis]
---
Why I love The Martian so much that I’ve read it five times in the last three years. 


“I’m pretty much fucked.” 

Same. 

I’m pretty sure it’s a sentiment everyone has felt at one point or another. Maybe not to the same level that Mark Watney feels at the beginning of Andy Weir’s The Martian, but it’s a relatable feeling. If there’s one thing I preach on an almost religious level, it’s my love for this book and how everyone should read it. While the “perfect novel” certainly doesn’t exist and is subjective, The Martian gets damn near it for me. 

I was hooked from the first line: short, to the point and sparked my curiosity to see what his predicament was. The rest of the book follows in straightforwardness--I never had to perform any mental gymnastics to understand a sentence--and almost read more like a movie rather than a book. Maybe it’s because while I was reading it, I was conscious that there was already a movie adaptation that people were raving about and was excited to see, but there were many times when I could vividly imagine a picturesque panorama, a comical cut from NASA to Mark, ambient noises slowly getting louder in the background. I can see the beginning of the book clearly: a black screen with voice over, “I’m pretty much fucked”. Cut to the red, barren wasteland of Mars. “That’s my considered opinion. Fucked”. Cut to a close up of Mark’s face. While reading, it’s easy to imagine happenings as if you’re a passive observer watching from the side of the street, but The Martian cleverly uses dramatic pauses and log entries between different sols (days) to imagine it in a more directed, cinematic way. 

With regards to the content of the book, a lot of people criticise it by saying that it’s too detailed, too scientific, and that they glossed over all of the long explanations. I can understand why it is boring, but as someone who almost majored in biology and enjoyed trying to work through the calculations and logic, Weir’s dedication to scientific accuracy is inspiring. In his notes on The Martian, Weir states that his intention was to write a story about survival on Mars that abides by what humans already know about science and the Red Planet. In response to his first edition, he got a lot of letters from scientists commending him for his technical precision while also pointing out the faults. Instead of just saying, “well, it’s not a perfect model, it’s still just fiction”, he went back and fixed the largest errors, keeping just a few small inaccuracies as indulgences. Maybe Mark has more luck than a person actually stuck on Mars might have, but Weir succeeded in keeping it within the realm of plausibility. Judging it by the goal of scientific realism that Weir set out to accomplish, The Martian is a roaring success.

This strong foundation in science is what makes The Martian, to me, a “true” science fiction novel. True in quotation marks because, while I would consider sci-fi to be one of my favourite genres (The Long Way to a Small Angry Planet is another favourite book of mine), one issue that I have with it is that some of its novels border on fantasy and rely more on speculation. This might just be a personal gripe related to the naming convention of the genre and nothing related to its novels, but “science fiction” as an umbrella term is mildly frustrating; I think there could be further divide by distinguishing between books that are rooted in scientific possibilities and those that are rooted in what’s already been proven, but that’s another discussion. 

In terms of character, it’s hard not to fall in love with Mark Watney. His wit and humour make him incredibly charming, engaging and, though he’s on the more optimistic side of the spectrum, somewhat believable; all of his actions are within reasonability and he behaves as many humans would in a situation of being stranded: he throws temper tantrums, his mind wanders (”I wonder how the Cubs are doing”) and he misses the company of other humans. He’s also not the perfect character that begins to irritate the audience. Mark may be lucky--things work out better for him than they probably would in a real situation--and he’s smarter than a lot of the world population, but there are reasonable explanations behind how he knows so much about what’s relevant to his survival. 

Most of all, I appreciate that the book set out to achieve its goal and once it was done, it was done. Weir didn’t try to turn it into a philosophical discussion about loneliness and abandonment. Since it started out as a passion project that was posted one chapter at a time online, I believe that it’s intended simply as a theoretical experiment and an enjoyable read. It’s more than likely that I’m wrong (who am I to speak for the intentions of an author?) but my problem with many modern novels is that they sound like they’re trying a little bit too hard to sound sophisticated, establish credibility, sound like 1984 and Lord of the Flies. If Weir were trying to get to the core of some life question about human nature, I don’t think it would have been possible for Mark to be written as the lovable character that he is--Weir would have had to explore his philosophical theory throughout the novel for it to make sense and that would have disrupted the flow of Mark’s personality. Only at the very end of the book does Mark briefly reflect on the question of human perseverance and the lengths people will go to just to save one person, and he does it in the most Mark fashion possible: through observation of how humans generally behave when lives are at stake rather than theorising about morality.

At this point, it’s hard for me to imagine another book ever replacing The Martian as #1 on my list of favourites. Just like how Christopher Lee used to reread Lord of the Rings every year, I’ve basically committed to rereading The Martian every year for the rest of the foreseeable future. Sure there are other books that I consider to be “better” than The Martian, like The Secret Life of Bees, To Kill a Mockingbird and Brave New World, but I will never tire of rereading it. Even after just recently finishing it again for the fifth time, I remain just as excited for the sixth. 

And, an afterthought, it also doesn’t hurt that I like Matt Damon. 
