---
layout: post
title: Imaginary Friends in Adulthood
category: writings
tags: [reflection]
---
How art and fiction helped me to find my passion and win my mind back.


On April 19, 2011, I uploaded my first ever drawing that was not fan art to DeviantART. It was of a mermaid sitting on a rock in the ocean. This likely was not the first character that I’d ever created, but it was the first time I put one on display for the world to see. I was 12 years old. Little did I know, it was the beginning of a journey on which I’d discover my greatest passion in life: character design. 

It started out as how most children's artwork does: simple drawings of people; nothing more than bodies with faces and small variations of physical features. But in time, I transitioned from creating people that were only distinguishable through their appearances to ones that had distinct personalities. I could describe who they were, how they carried themselves on a daily basis, their motives. In short, they started to become real people. 

In the beginning, I created a lot of “fan characters”--characters that I dreamed up and inserted into already existing franchises, like Harry Potter and Teen Titans. I passed most days in my head thinking about what their adventures and roles in their universes would be like. I never imagined myself in their places, but viewed their lives from a third-person perspective. Since I spent so much time with them, I grew very attached to my characters and the imaginary worlds they inhabited. 

Later on, when I was about 15 years old, I started going through a rough and emotional period. My own mind had become the enemy. It was during that time, I think, that my interest in character creation really took off. It went from just an idle, fun hobby to a great comfort and coping mechanism. In order to draw my brain away from thinking about worse things, I created characters that lived in the worlds of Percy Jackson and Camp Half-Blood, Frodo Baggins and Middle Earth, Aang and the Four Nations. Even though it was where I dedicated most of my headspace, I rarely introduced them to the real people in my life or shared the extent to which my characters mattered to me. I often think about why that was, because it was the source of a long-lasting shyness about sharing my work that still lingers to this day. I think it was in part because it was my own little world to escape to, somewhere for just me. But honestly, I think I was more embarrassed to talk about it. When I was younger, I was that odd person that didn’t have a lot of friends and frankly, was laughed at quite a lot. I learned to feel ashamed about every aspect of myself. Creating characters felt similar to having imaginary friends and I, the teen that I was, felt like I should be too old and too cool for that. I didn’t want to give people more “fuel” for things to laugh at me about. So for a long time, I hid it. I continued to post drawings of my characters on DeviantART but barely scratched the surface when it came to explaining them. Still, although I kept it to myself, it was something that I continued to do full steam. Even though I wish that I’d been more open about it back then, I’m forever thankful that my shame wasn’t felt so deep that I stopped. 

Because if I had, I don’t know if I’d still be alive to write this piece today. 

Maybe my characters do start out as imaginary friends, but there’s no shame in that. With time, they grow to become real people. In my life, when things were at their worst, they protected me. Fictional worlds and people aren’t tangible, but that doesn’t make them unreal, doesn’t mean that they can’t have real-world impacts.

I don’t think I was conscious of it when I was younger, but I was creating characters to fill a loneliness that resulted from not being able to express myself well and feeling misunderstood. It’s not uncommon for people to communicate through art; my creativity just happens to manifest itself as character design. Finding this outlet not only helped me to cope with pain, but also to heal and move forward.

In retrospect, thinking I should be “too old and too cool” to have imaginary friends was ridiculous. I’m not completely sure where that notion even came from. I think there’s certainly a lot of media out there that shuns people that live in their heads too much. There’s a quiet expectation for people to be outwardly social and engage with the world around them and as soon as someone would prefer to live internally, they’re criticised for not appreciating their surroundings and outcasting themselves. Maybe when I first started designing characters and creating universes, it truly was used as an escape from my problems, but I never thought of it as creating the ideal best friend to talk to or world to hide in. Now, it’s about seeing how far my creativity and imagination can go. I’ve drifted away from fan characters and towards creating my own fully original ones. The biggest concentration of my energy has gone to my character Yvaine and a place called the Queen’s Galaxy, an ongoing project since 2013. I never use it as a bragging chip, but also frequently look at my work as a whole, compare where it started to where it is now, and I think, “this all came from me. This came from my brain.” I don’t say that because I think that it’s the most impressive creation to ever grace this earth, not even close, but the amount of work and love I’ve put into it reminds me that it’s more than a petty escape. I can’t speak for everyone that enjoys creating characters and worldbuilding, but I think that’s a huge misconception about us. It’s not about creating the perfect friend or world because we merely see flaws or are unhappy in our physical surroundings, it’s simply how we show our creativity.

I still find it difficult to let others in on my ideas. But if people want to laugh, then that’s fine. If people want to say living in my head so much is abnormal, then that’s fine. I can’t fully say that it won’t bother me, but I will never stop creating. I might continue to be shy about my ideas but I will never be shy about my passion for character design. In the past few years, I’ve gradually been learning to care less and less about what negativity others throw at me and have started trying to share my ideas more openly. 

My characters and enthusiasm for creating have taken me on an adventure of growth and discovery for the last 8+ years, and I hope that it never ends. In tumultuous times, my characters are always there to support and give me something to work on, to remind me that there are things worth being excited about. Character creation has played such an important role in my life and I can’t imagine who or where I’d be without it. So, even though some people say that my characters are just a product of my imagination, are nothing more than ink on paper, they’re not only real to me but some of the most important people in my life. And I can’t thank them enough for everything they’ve done for me.

Growing up, I found a lot of comfort in the stories and places other people were able invent. They helped me understand who I am and where my passion lies. My hope is that one day, my characters and universes can do the same for others as well. 
